Primarily this package is intended to make comparisons of different throughput curves 
easier and more efficient for the LSST engineering teams. 

See what the package can do : 
 source phot_ref.csh
 cd python
 python example.py
Then read the photTools.py and example.py to see how to use these tools for your own needs.

This is a work in progress; feedback is welcomed and new tools will be added as needed.

---

This photometry_reference directory contains:

- ** 5 subdirectories containing a sample of reference SEDs, chosen 
to represent a range of different types of SEDs suitable for addresing
various calibration questions.  These four subdirectories are: 

- galaxies (.. more details coming .. these are composites I got from AndyC)
- photoZ_outliers (containing galaxy templates which are most likely to
        result in catastrophic failures in determining redshifts 
	using photo-Z techniques. Templates provided by Sam Schmidt, via Tony). 
- quasar (containing a single quasar SED which has been generated 
	by combining a composite spectrum from 2204 QSO spectra 
	from SDSS (vanden Berk et al) with a simple model for the
	flux behavior beyond the SDSS wavelengths (by Ivezic)).
- sn (containing SN SEDs at various points in their time evolution, 
	these comes from the SN templates created by Peter Nugent),
- stars (containing several stars from blue to red -- km10_7250.fits_g45 
  	being the bluest and equivalent to about an F0 type main sequence
	star [7250 indicates its effective temperature .. hotter=bluer],
	down to the m3.0Full.dat SED which represents a red Mdwarf.
	The Kurucz models come from Kurucz 1993, while the Mdwarf is
	a composite empirical spectra from SDSS extended in wavelength
	by other observations.)

In each SED file, there may or may not be a header line starting with '#', 
but the data is always contained in columns of wavelength (in nm) and 
flux - 'Flambda' specified, that is, in units of ergs/cm^s/s/nm, although
the flux is arbitrarily scaled (that is, the SEDs are not 
photometrically pre-scaled to any particular magnitude). 

- throughputs ** A subdirectory containing a copy of the LSST package
'throughputs'.  This contains a copy (current as of the time this
package was uploaded) of sample LSST response curves, as well as
response curves for a sample of other telescopes. You can substitute
and use your own throughput curves, of course, but these are provided
for convenience.


- python ** A subdirectory containing some sample python programs
which can be used as tools to help you work with these SEDs. These
programs are mostly a copy of the tools available in the LSST package
'catalogs_measures', but are provided here for convience.  Some
additional code has been provided here in photTools to serve as a
demonstration of how to use the Sed/Bandpasses classes and to provide
convenience functions (just import photTools into python, and voila).

- the file 'phot_ref.csh' which, if sourced, sets some environment variables
that portions of the python code, photTools.py, take advantage of. 
